# README

HCI Lab 2: Information Retrieval


## 1. Enivronment

- **Pycharm** Community Edition 2022.2.2
- **Windows** 11 Home Chinese Edition
- **Python** Interpreter Version 3.8.16

Please `download` these packages to configure your python enviroment before you use it. 

```
Flask
PyQt5
numpy
tensorflow
Flask-HTTPAuth
scipy
imageio
```

## 2. Usage

1. Download the code provided by the teacher. Unzip the package. 

   *(After a reminder from a classmate，change all the sentence "C:\Users\Ying\AppData\Local\Programs\Python\Python39\python.exe” appears in `.idea/workspace.xml` into “” .)*

2. Use my file of the same name to replace the following files in the unpacked installation package:

   1. `server/image_vectorizer.py`

      Used to extract features from dataset and save it on the distination.

   2. `server/rest-server.py`

      Basic level of validation is also being done in this file. And it also sends data generated by the back-end to the front-end. 

   3. `server/search.py`

      This file implements the image search/retrieva.

   4. `server/templates/main.html`

      This is the front-end interface I designed.

3. Run `server/image_vectorizer.py`,this may takes a few minutes.

4. Run `server/rest-server.py`. 

5. After starting up the server, you can access the UI by navigating to the URL (e.g. *http://127.0.0.1:5000* ) and proceed to upload a file to generate 9 similar images. 

6. Next, you can choose whether to show only the images you like (the ones with the heart highlighted) or filter the images by the six tags given.
